This artifact is the basis of an event planning app for an android device. The app was designed utilizing Android Studio. The app was created on 08/18/2024 and has 4 working pages; the login screen, the event lists, the add event screen, and the edit event screen. The reason I chose to include this item is my software design and engineering artifact because even in its basic form of only 4 main pages, the app still showcases both the engineering and design parts. 	  

In terms of software design principles it showcases modularity in which there are reusable and independent components, maintainability, scalability, and separation of concerns. It also showcases that I can utilize Gradle and Kotlin which are not used in the other courses so it can help show I am a quick learner and am diverse in my coding languages. I have gone through and implemented a MVVM architecture which has eliminated 99% of all warnings and errors which aided in the final look of the app pages and show I can present a clean code. My app has a simple UI design principle which makes it easier in navigating the pages created and working the app. The app color design is all within a theme in which I used a green as it is a calmer color to look at and phone accessibility settings have an easy time adapting the color to meet what the user needs. 

While going back through and revamping the code I have delved into MVVM architecture which was originally not utilized and also not something I specialized too much in. It took some research but I took the time to sit down and learn about it and then how to implement it because I saw it was recommended especially for when creating apps. The main challenge I was facing was while implementing it I was able to get rid of some errors but figuring out how to structure the code and fix it was a challenge as I learned that parts of the code where considered too small for the testing emulator or that when looking at every device to see how it fits, some would be really huge and others would be too small. The last warning which I ended up suppressing as it was not an overall error was that my color theory which I had to implement, because my original design was all over the place, was that even when I utilized a lighter shade of green for my screen and then kept an all black or really dark grey text, the app kept warning saying it didn’t have enough contrast despite the wording being clear as day. I was able to reduce the amount of bad contrast so it was barely a warning however I was unable to fully get rid of the issue. 

In terms of course outcomes I feel I have met all the wanted outcomes of the course, my app has MVVM architecture making it easier for a future teammate to look, understand, and be able to edit the code and the cleaned up UI assists in making it easier for non technical stakeholders to be able to look over the code to provide feedback. In terms of delivering professional quality software, the app being rewritten to follow MVVM also aided in cleaning up resource files and separation of concerns. It also went through a major debug which aided in improving the app. In terms of designing and evaluating computing solutions, I was able to identify my apps issues and applied architectural solutions to fix them and the app itself aids in being a solution to a client issue which is remembering and listing different events. I also feel I hit the last two outcomes of demonstrating ability to utilize well founded techniques and communicating ideas effectively as the app is done in the most updated version of Android Studio and its libraries are all up to date and by cleaning up my code I made it easier for developers/reviewers and the friendly UI makes communication clearer to the end user. 
